The following mutations do not require any visible changes in the character until used. People who have these mutations are not obviously recognized as mutants if they don’t use their powers. Using some of these mutations costs stat Pool points. Some are actions.


| d100&nbsp;&nbsp; | Name |  Desaciption  |
| ---- | ---- | --- |
| 01–05 |  Darksight | You can see in complete darkness as if it were light. Enabler.  |
| 06–10 | No breath | You do not need to breathe. Enabler. |
| 11–15 | No water | You do not need to drink water to survive. Enabler. |
| 16–20 | Chameleon skin | Your skin changes colors as you wish. This is an asset in tasks involving hiding. Enabler. |
| 21–24 | Savage bite | Your mouth widens surprisingly, and hidden, pointed teeth emerge when you wish it. You can make a bite attack that inflicts 3 points of damage. Enabler|
|25–26 | Gluey globs | You can produce gluey globs at your fingertips. This is an asset in tasks involving climbing or keeping your grip. You can also fling these globs in immediate range, and if they hit, they hinder the target’s physical tasks for one round. Enabler to use in a task; action to use as an attack.

27–30 Face dancing: You can alter your features enough to give you an asset in all tasks involving disguise. Enabler.
31–35 Sense oddity: You can sense the presence of an object or creature possessing fantastic abilities (because of alien technology, transdimensional interference, nanites, or similar) within short range. You do not learn details or the precise location. Action.
36–40 Stinger in finger: You can make an attack with your hand that inflicts 1 point of damage. If you make a second successful attack roll, your stinger also injects a poison that inflicts 4 points of Speed damage (ignores Armor). Action.
41–44 Stinger in elbow: You can make an attack with your elbow that inflicts 2 points of damage. If you make a second successful attack roll, your stinger also injects a poison that inflicts 4 points of Speed damage (ignores Armor). Action.
45–47 Spit needles: You can make an attack with immediate range. You spit a needle that inflicts 1 point of damage. If you make a second successful attack roll, the needle also injects a poison that inflicts 4 points of Speed damage (ignores Armor). Action.
48–50 Spit acid: You can make an attack with immediate range. You spit a glob of acid that inflicts 2 points of damage. Action.
51–53 Spit webs: You can make up to 10 feet (3.5 m) of a strong, ropelike material each day at the rate of about 1 foot (30 cm) per minute. The webbing is level 3. You can also spit globs of webbing in immediate range, and if they hit, the target’s physical tasks are hindered for one round. Action.
54–59 Filtered lungs: You have an asset to Might defense rolls against vapors or noxious gases. You can survive in a hostile breathing environment (such as underwater or in a vacuum) for up to ten minutes. Enabler.
60–62 Disruptive field (electronics) (2 Intellect points): When you wish it, you disrupt devices within immediate range (no roll needed). All devices operate as if they were 3 levels lower while in range of your field. Devices reduced to level 0 or below do not function. Action.
63–65 Disruptive field (flesh) (2 Intellect points): When you wish it, you disrupt flesh within immediate range. All creatures within range of your field take 1 point of damage. If you apply a level of Effort to increase the damage rather than affect the difficulty, each target takes 2 additional points of damage. If your attack fails, targets in the area still take 1 point of damage. Action.
66–68 Disruptive field (thoughts) (1 Intellect point): When you wish it, you disrupt thoughts within immediate range. Intellect actions for all creatures within range are hindered. Action.
69–70 Magnetic flesh: You attract or repel metal when you desire. Not only do small metal objects cling to you, but this mutation is an asset in tasks involving climbing on metal or keeping your grip on a metal item. This mutation is an asset to Speed defense tasks when being attacked by a metal foe or a foe with a metal weapon. Enabler.
71–73 Gravity negation (2 Intellect points): You float slowly into the air. If you concentrate, you can control your movement at half your normal speed; otherwise, you drift with the wind or with any momentum you have gained. This effect lasts for up to ten minutes. Action to initiate.
74–80 Telepathy (2 Intellect points): You can speak telepathically with others who are within short range. Communication is two‑way, but the other party must be willing and able to communicate. You don’t have to see the target, but you must know that it’s within range. You can have more than one active contact at once, but you must establish contact with each target individually. Each contact lasts up to ten minutes. In addition to the normal options for
using Effort, you can use a level of Effort to increase the duration of contact to a full day. Action to establish contact.
81–85 Pyrokinesis (1 Intellect point): You can cause a flammable object you can see within immediate range to spontaneously catch fire. If used as an attack, this power inflicts 2 points of damage. Action.
86–90 Telekinesis (2 Intellect points): You can exert force on objects within short range. Once activated, your power has an effective Might Pool of 10, a Might Edge of 1, and an Effort of 2 (approximately equal to the strength of a fit, capable, adult human), and you can use it to move objects, push against objects, and so on. For example, you could lift and pull a light object anywhere within range to yourself or move a heavy object (like a piece of furniture) about 10 feet (3.5 m). This power lacks the fine control to wield a weapon or move objects with much speed, so in most situations, it’s not a means of attack. You can’t use this ability on your own body. The power lasts for one hour or until its Might Pool is depleted, whichever comes first. Action.
91–92 Phase shifting (2 Intellect points): You can pass slowly through solid barriers at a rate of 1 inch (3 cm) per round (minimum of one round to pass through the barrier). You can’t act (other than moving) or perceive anything until you pass entirely through the barrier. You can’t pass through energy barriers. Action.
93–94 Power device (1+ Intellect points): You can charge an artifact or other device (except a cypher) so that it can be used once. The cost is 1 Intellect point plus 1 point per level of the device. Action.
95–96 Drain power: You can drain the power from an artifact or device, allowing you to regain 1 Intellect point per level of the device. You regain points at the rate of 1 point per round and must give your full concentration to the process each round. The GM determines whether the device is fully drained (likely true of most handheld or smaller devices) or retains some power (likely true of large machines). Action to initiate; action each round to drain.
97–99 Regeneration: In addition to regaining points through normal recovery rolls, you regain 1 point to your Might Pool or Speed Pool per hour, regardless of whether you rest, until both Pools are at their maximum. Enabler.
00 Feed off pain: Any time a creature within immediate range suffers at least 3 points of damage (after Armor subtraction) in one attack, you can restore 1 point to one of your Pools, up to its maximum. You can feed off any creature in this way, whether friend or foe. You never regain more than 1 point per round. Enabler.
